`~1!2@3#4$5%6^7&8*9(0)-_=+[{]};:'",<.>/?

But with the program two weeks away, many New Yorkers have turned against bike share, and for one simple reason: They did not expect it to look like this.

In recent weeks, hundreds of stations have sprouted in Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn — empty husks sprawled 30 or 50 spaces long on city sidewalks and streets, anticipating rows of bicycles that will that will soon protrude from the kiosk slots.

The critics say the kiosks are a blight. They clash with the character of residential areas of the West Village or Fort Greene, Brooklyn. They are already magnets for pigeons, garbage bags and dogs in need of relief.

Lawsuits have been prepared. Kiosks have been defaced. At a particularly heated community meeting, an inelegant analogy was drawn between the Bloomberg administration and the Taliban.

“None of us are against bikes — most of us have bikes that we stow in our building,” said Lynn Ellsworth, 54, from TriBeCa. “But why they put these giant racks in these little streets is crazy to me.”

Many opponents knew that the rental bikes were coming — thousands of them, made available for public use — and they understood that the city would need somewhere to put them. But there was initially little uproar, nothing to match what greeted the city’s expansion of bike lanes, a flash point of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s transportation legacy.

Indeed, a poll by The New York Times last year found broad support for cycling, with 66 percent of respondents calling bike lanes a good idea. Eleven percent of those polled said they were very likely to use bike share; 19 percent said they were somewhat likely.

Now, even some avid cyclists have found occasion to complain. At a recent community meeting on bike share in the West Village, Jane Browne, 42, who initially supported the program, said she had recently seen mice scurrying in the “corridors of trash and water” that formed between a nearby bike station and the curb.

Shelly Mossey, 58, from Battery Park City, has protested the planned removal of a widely used rack for private bikes near South End Avenue, calling it a pillar of the neighborhood. His son’s bike is on there, he said, and so are his peers’. Families mingle at the rack before retrieving their bikes and escorting their children to school.

“Why do we have to lose that,” Mr. Mossey asked, “and give it up for the bigger picture?”

Other residents have rebelled against the program’s sponsor, Citibank, whose logo on bike kiosks prompted vandals in Fort Greene to post fliers at the stations. They read, in all capital letters, “Residential landmark blocks are not for advertising or commercial activity!”

The city’s Transportation Department said it had been warned of possible problems ahead by aides of Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, where a bike share program began in 2010. “They said you’ll be hated for six months,” Jon Orcutt, the department’s policy director, recalled in a phone interview, “and then you’ll be loved.”

Still, the Bloomberg administration had hoped to pre-empt some of the discontent. In a report timed weeks before the first Brooklyn stations were installed, the Transportation Department said that community participation in the program’s planning had outstripped “any other public project undertaken anywhere.”

The city said it had discussed the bike share program at 159 public meetings, and conducted another 230 with elected officials, property owners and other stakeholders. Planners received more than 10,000 suggestions for station locations online.

But city officials, advocates and adversaries alike now concede that no amount of forewarning could have prepared residents for the sight of the stations.

“People are attached to their streets,” said Paul Steely White, the executive director of Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group that has been among the program’s greatest cheerleaders. “When someone changes it, it’s like someone rearranging the furniture in our living room.
